>> Nina Zakharenko: Very quickly,
let's use the request library
to interact with APIs.
So let's all together make a new file and
we're gonna call it dog.ui
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
it might be useful for you to have this
page open from the class exercise.
So to use the request library, the first
thing we need to do is import requests,
next we're gonna define the URL of
an API that we want to interact with.
If you go back to the class website and
you look down here,
where I define the API URL variable,
you can just copy and paste this.
It's the URL for Shibe Inu API,
and just make sure that
you get the quotes right.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now,
we want to get a response back, so
we're gonna use the request library
to call .get on our API URL.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
then if our response is successful,
it should have a status
code available on it.
So we can print out that the status code.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Is,
okay, and let's run this.
Okay, status code 200.
What do remember from the cat pictures?
What does 200 mean?
200 okay, everything went great.
Now, by default these days,
most APIs return JSON,
some of them optionally let you specify
but I know that this API returns JSON.
And oops, sorry and working with JSON,
with requests is really easy,
we can assign a variable
response_json by just
calling the response,
remember, that's the variable here,
the response from the server.
And response.json will get
the JSON from that response,
convert it into a Python dictionary,
so let's print that out.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now if
you did something wrong,
if you're passing in some
parameters that didn't make sense.
Calling this API might result in
any other type of HTTP status code,
for example 404500, depends.
Okay, now,
one of the nice things about VS code,
you should have a URL printed out here.
You can command and click in
the terminal to follow that URL and
we just used an API to get this
adorable picture of a doge.
Doge's on demand,
you can run this all day, every day and
get new adorable dog pictures.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So the request
library, I told you that Python was
batteries included, sometimes those
batteries are a little rusty, right?
The standard library is more
focused on feature richness,
on backwards compatibility.
Other external libraries have other
purposes, so this library in particular
requests focuses on making
working with APIs as easy and
as straightforward as possible.
>> Nina Zakharenko: There's one
other thing I want to show you,
remember, I talked about URL
parameters that we can optionally
add on some parameters to our API.
Let's do that with our response,
so by looking at
the documentation I know that I can
pass in a parameter of accounts.
So how many adorable dog
pictures do I want to look at?
We declare our parameters as a dictionary,
so
I'm gonna say count of 10 and
then we pass in those
params to our response.
So these two lines right here,
lines five and
six are the only things that I've changed.
If I run my Python file
in the terminal now,
we'll see that I got ten responses back.